Hey and welcome back.
We're going to jump right into states.
Now, there are a bunch of different states that we need to think about when designing inputs.
Different states tell the user what is currently happening and what should happen next.
These states can be differentiated with like text color borders, and these visual cues are integral
to a good input.
So let's jump into the different types of states we encounter.
So the first one we have right here is your default state.
And this just shows an empty field that hasn't been interacted with.
So, I mean, there's just an empty field.
There's your label.
There's nothing.
I mean, it's just standard, it's default.
And user hasn't even clicked into it yet or entered anything.
Next is your active field.
So the user is active.
They are in focus right here.
And what happens is, is the user has clicked into this, it has a highlighted border or your outline
you can call it and it carry it over here on the left to show the user that they should be typing something.
So, mind you, this carrot's always flashing.
So just to let the user know that an action needs to happen.
Next is filled.
So this is a filled input.
So once a user has filled an input and entered all the information and clicked away from the field,
it'll look similar to your default input, but the only difference is that there's text in there and
it's been completed so the users know that they can move on.
So a really straightforward.
Next is disabled.
So sometimes you run into a case where an input should be disabled due to a requirement restriction.
Disabled inputs are generally shown as filled in, grayed out, or to indicate that you can't interact
with it.
Sometimes they could have some information in there that can't be edited, but it is grayed out until
some action is taken.
And just keep that in mind that when we are designing forms and stuff like that, we should be designing
for disabled inputs as well because that scenario could happen.
Success states.
Okay, so when an answer is correct, you have the option to show a success message.
So similar to the error input.
We communicate that with color.
We have green.
We have icons.
And appropriate text.
So you don't necessarily need to show correct or success messages all the time.
It may make sense in certain scenarios.
If your form is designed really well, users will often like have multiple success states like this,
and that may get way too redundant.
It may make sense in some scenarios, so keep that in mind.
Now this one is really important.
We have an error when a user has entered something incorrect, or maybe the user may have missed an
input, they should be shown an error message.
Now the message generally should have the appropriate color red.
We have icons and text.
This error should always and I stress this, this should always be inline the form or inline to the
input and not necessarily outside of the form.
Underneath the actual corresponding input is totally fine and that's where I think you should be putting
all your error messages.
The worst thing is when you have a like a four or five field form and then you have the error message
all the way at the top of the form, at the bottom of the form.
And you're like, Well, well, what did I enter wrong or what went wrong?
That is a pretty bad experience.
So keep it confined to where the actual error is just so you just can quickly remedy that.
Now, we kind of touched upon this in our lesson in typography in terms of like the appropriate text
as well.
So let's talk about assistance.
Now.
There will be times when a user comes to an input and needs a bit of assistance.
You know, a tip or a hint.
This will help the user fill out your input much quicker if you do it right.
Here are certain ways we can provide assistance to our users.
So one way is hint text.
Now we touched upon this a little bit, so I have him text right here, right beside my label.
Right.
Aligned, not necessarily as a placeholder.
I don't do placeholders often, but.
Using hints above or below your input field gives users helpful information about the question you're
asking them.
So if you need to use it.
Oh, that is incorrect, actually.
If you need to use it, use it like that on top or below just to give users some helpful hints if they
need it.
This could be like a CV number.
I mean, maybe not that, but you could use it for birth dates in terms of the format.
I always know when I'm entering a date format that I don't know if I should put the date first or the
month first or the year first.
And, you know, I've been asked in all separate ways, it's just good to have some sort of line on
how to do that.
The next is auto format.
So we have an auto format, credit card number over here.
And essentially we have the power to automatically format a user's answer depending on the scenario.
So this avoids any format errors and helps users read and review their answers.
So think like things like credit card numbers, phone numbers, etc..
So right now I have a credit card number here and it's just much more easier for me to break it up into
chunks rather than to read it like this.
So this is not as easy to read.
I know it says one, two, three, four.
One, two, three, four.
But.
It's harder to read when it's all combined.
So breaking it into chunks or auto formatting, that is just a much easier experience on the user.
So keep that in mind and have a good conversation with your developers about doing that.
So we've seen this input before.
Now, autocomplete sometimes users need to enter something long or they may not necessarily know what
they're trying to search for and we should help them with autocomplete.
This saves the user a bunch of time and also reduces the possibility of errors with formatting and spelling.
So if we have an address like we have down here, it's just much more easier to get them to start typing
in the the first letters or the first numbers of their address and then start auto filling.
It could be even used for like answering a question, a specific question in relation to something and
the user doesn't necessarily know the answer or there may be multiple answers or they may be searching
for multiple things.
So autocomplete has a wide variety of use cases and you should use it when a user may be confused on
what to enter.
Or it could cut down on the amount of time a user could enter information like a long address, which
is pretty pedantic when you think about it in terms of answering one.
Now default values.
It's always smart to pre fill text fields with the most likely answer when the answer is expected by
the majority of your users.
So if I were to ask you a question about like your country and I knew 95% of my users are in Canada
or the United States or whatever country I could pre fill that data with just Canada or the United States,
and that would be a much easier experience for the majority of our users.
So they don't have to go through the process of actually selecting that or finding that answer.
Now, in this case, potato chips and the right answer is always salt and vinegar.
So that's my favorite my favorite flavor for chips.
But you should always think about how you can make the user's life a little bit more easier.
And that's it for inputs.